The President:
This week, I traveled
to Afghanistan --
to thank our troops
serving far from home,
and to sign a historic
agreement that will help us
complete our mission
and end the war.
As Commander-in-Chief, nothing
is more humbling or inspiring
than the chance to spend
some time with our troops.
At Bagram Air Base, I visited
with some of our outstanding men
and women in uniform.
I thanked them for their
extraordinary service.
And I let them know that
America honors their sacrifice.
Because of their
bravery and dedication,
the tide of war has
turned in Afghanistan.
We've broken the
Taliban's momentum.
We've built strong
Afghan Security Forces.
We've devastated al
Qaeda's leadership.
And one year ago, our troops
launched the operation that
killed Osama bin Laden.
The goal that I set --
to defeat al Qaeda,
and deny it a chance to
rebuild -- is within reach.
Because of the
progress we've made,
I was able to sign a historic
agreement between the United
States and Afghanistan
that defines a new kind of
relationship between
our countries --
a future in which Afghans are
responsible for the security of
their nation, and we build an
equal partnership between two
sovereign states; a future
in which the war ends,
and a new chapter begins.
The enormous sacrifices of our
men and women in uniform are
not over.
But many of our troops
are already coming home.
Last year, we removed 10,000
U.S. troops from Afghanistan.
Another 23,000 will leave
by the end of the summer.
As our coalition agreed,
by the end of 2014,
the Afghans will be fully
responsible for the security of
their country.
And this is as it should be.
Because after more
than a decade of war,
it's time to focus on
nation building here at home.
As a new greatest generation
returns from overseas,
we must ask ourselves, what
kind of country will they
come back to?
Will it be a country where a
shrinking number of Americans do
really well while a growing
number barely get by?
Or will it be a country where
everyone gets a fair shot,
everyone does their fair share,
and everyone plays by the same
set of rules -- a country with
opportunity worthy of the troops
who protect us?
America has answered
this question before.
My grandfather, a
veteran of Patton's Army,
got the chance to go to
college on the GI Bill.
My grandmother, who worked
on a bomber assembly line,
was part of a workforce
that turned out the best
products on Earth.
They contributed to a story of
success that every American had
the chance to share in, the
basic American promise that if
you worked hard, you could do
well enough to raise a family,
own a home, send
your kids to college,
and put a little
away for retirement.
Keeping that promise alive is
the defining issue of our time.
But it means making
responsible choices.
I don't think we should
prioritize things like more tax
cuts for millionaires while
cutting the kinds of investments
that build a strong
middle class.
That's why I've called on
Congress to take the money we're
no longer spending at war, use
half of it to pay down our debt,
and use the other half
to rebuild America.
Because we've got
more jobs to create.
More students to educate.
More clean energy to generate.
More entrepreneurs with
the next great idea,
just looking for
their shot at success.
We've got to invest in
things like education and
medical research.
We've got to build newer,
faster transportations and
communication networks.
And we've got to secure the care
and benefits our veterans have
earned, so that we serve them
as well as they have served us.
Every time I have the privilege
of meeting with our troops,
I'm struck by their
courage, their commitment,
their selflessness,
and their teamwork.
They have something to teach us.
Recovering from the worst
economic crisis since the Great
Depression is a
work in progress --
but if we follow their example,
then I have no doubt we will
preserve the promise
of this country,
protect the freedoms we cherish,
and leave for our children an
America that's built to last.
God bless you, and
have a great weekend.